The Instagram algorithm has changed. And
if you're watching this video tomorrow,
the Instagram algorithm has changed
again. Yes, the Instagram algorithm is
changing on a daily basis. According to
Adam Ozeri, the head of Instagram in my
one-on-one interview with him, the
Instagram algorithm is being tweaked and
worked on and updated every single day.
But what most people get wrong is that
there are rarely massive changes rolled
out. It's usually small incremental
changes that might add up to a big
difference over time, but you're usually
not going to notice anything substantial
from one day to the next. And so, with
that being said, I'm going to share with
you the seven keys to success with the
Instagram algorithm in 2025. And don't
worry, if you're watching this in 2026
or 2027, this is likely still relevant.
If it's not, then I've definitely done
an updated podcast since then with
whatever the new strategies are. In
order to understand how we got here
today, it's important to understand what
Instagram looked like even just 5 to 10
years ago. Instagram, of course, is
owned by Facebook. And Facebook, as many
people know, was created by Mark
Zuckerberg to be a social media
platform. Emphasis on the social. It was
a way for friends to connect with
friends, to see what your colleagues and
your loved ones and your family was up
to, and just check in on your social
circle, but digitally. And for the first
15 to 20 years of Facebook's existence,
that was the case. And for the first
decade or so of Instagram's existence,
that was the case. But then in the late
2010s, musically, an app that later
became Tik Tok, started to establish
itself as a serious contender for the
most popular social media platform in
the world. And if you think about the
social media scape over the last decade
or so, Tik Tok is really the only
platform that has risen and stuck
around. YouTube, Facebook, Instagram,
and Twitter, which of course we now call
X, have been around for a long time. And
there have been lots of other platforms
that have risen in popularity, but they
usually disappear as quickly as they
gain popularity. They're super viral,
and everyone is downloading them one
month, and then a month later almost no
one is using them. I'm talking about
apps like Clapper, Be Real, Foursquare,
Lemonade. Some of these apps you might
still use, but regardless of whether or
not you use them, we all have to admit
that they're not as popular as they were
at their peak. Tik Tok started to grow
in popularity in the US in 2018 and
2019. And then during the lockdowns in
2020, it absolutely exploded in
popularity with tens of millions of
people downloading it and it reaching as
high as number one on the app store. And
now fast forward five years later, Tik
Tok is the number one mostused app in
terms of time spent per day in every
single generation, which is crazy. A lot
of people have a misconception that Tik
Tok is just for young people, people
under the age of 30 or Gen Z. But in
reality, even baby boomers use Tik Tok
for a greater amount of time per day
than any other social media app. But of
course, the purpose of today's episode
is to talk about Instagram and the
Instagram algorithm. So, how does all
this relate to Instagram? Well, the
reason that people use Tik Tok more than
any other platform, and the reason that
so many Tik Tok users report being
addicted to the app, whether seriously
addicted or just hyperbolically
addicted, it's because of the Tik Tok
for you page. And the algorithm that
drives the for you page is different
than any social media platform before
it. Again, like I talked about earlier,
the social media platforms of the early
2000s and 2010s of Instagram, Facebook,
and Twitter were designed to heavily
weight who you decide to follow. So, if
you're someone just casually using
Instagram and you follow a celebrity,
then Instagram says that's a really
strong indicator that you want to see
that celebrity's posts. Or if you follow
your friends and family, that is a very
strong indicator that you want to see
your friends and family's posts. But
what Tik Tok realized is even though
that might be a strong indicator that
you say you want to see their posts, in
reality, those posts from the celebrity
you followed, the brand that you
followed, or even your friends and
family that you follow, it's not always
going to be the best content. It's not
always going to be the most engaging
content. It's not always going to be the
content that keeps you on the platform
and keeps you interested and engaged.
What the Tik Tok for you page has done
is it has basically said we don't really
care who you follow. We are going to
show you the content that we think you
want to see. And then over the years
since Tik Tok has been created, that
algorithm has continued to optimize and
the machine learning has continued to
improve. So now as you're scrolling
through Tik Tok, the content that you're
being recommended and that you're seeing
is super specific, super relatable,
super interesting, and super engaging.
I'll give you a personal example. If you
were to ask me what I'm interested in
and the sorts of topics that I enjoy to
consume, I would list off things besides
social media marketing like snowboarding
or dogs or Pokemon. That's what I would
tell you I was interested in. But of
course, dayto-day there might be small
things that pique my interest or that
are more engaging to me. Well, last
weekend I was in Mexico for one of my
friends weddings. And within my first
four videos opening Tik Tok after
getting to our hotel room in Mexico, I
was recommended a post from someone
else, an American who was vacationing in
Mexico. And it was a hilarious,
relatable video about how they were at
an all-inclusive resort in Mexico and
the drinks were bottomless. And it was
like super funny and relatable. and I
wouldn't really care to see that besides
that specific 2 or 3day window when I
was in Mexico for my friend's wedding.
It's that kind of content and that kind
of hyperspecific algorithm that keeps
people like I said so addicted to the
platform and spending so much time on
the platform. But of course, all these
other social networks are smart. They
are billion-dollar companies themselves.
Meta is one of the biggest companies in
the history of the world. So, they're
not just going to sit back idally and
continue showing us our post from our
uncle that isn't very engaging, funny,
or interactive when over on TikTok,
we're seeing a super specific
dopamine-filled video that is perfectly
recommended based off what we are
interested in right this second. So, the
Instagram algorithm has been Tik
Tockified. This is what some, including
myself, have called the Tik
Tockification of the Instagram
algorithm. And in reality, I should say
algorithms because there are multiple
algorithms that run Instagram. There are
dozens of algorithms. There's a
different algorithm that determines what
you see on the feed versus who sees your
feed posts, your Instagram stories
versus who sees your stories, uh what
posts show up on the reals tab, what
posts show up on the explore page, etc.,
etc. There are slightly different
algorithms for all of these things, but
they have all been continuously
optimized over the last few years
towards the ultimate goal of serving
people with the most entertaining
content possible based off what they are
currently interested in. So, with all
that being said, let's get into the
seven keys to success on Instagram with
the Instagram algorithms in 2025. Number
one is great news for those of you who
have a smaller account. However you
define smaller account, the smaller your
account is, the better this news is
going to be for you. And it is that
followers have never mattered less. The
number of followers you have has never
been less important than it is today.
Instagram has leveled the playing field.
And so I'm sorry if you're watching this
and you have hundreds of thousands of
followers. Listen, that's me, too. We
can all have our pity party. Maybe we
can have some group therapy sessions
together to cry about the changes in the
algorithm and how we work so hard to
build all these followers and now our
followers aren't seeing our posts. But I
think when considering the total
ecosystem of Instagram and of social
media as a whole, this is a positive
change because yes, following someone is
an indication that I want to see their
future posts. And it is still that way.
It is still true that if I follow person
A, I am more likely to see their posts
in the future than person B who I don't
follow. But that's only if their posts
are engaging. That's only if their posts
are interesting to me or if the
algorithm deems and expects them to be
interesting to me. The algorithm is not
just going to show me my uncle's posts
because I follow him. The algorithm is
not just going to show me some brand or
business's post because I followed them
seven years ago. Instead, the algorithm
is going to show me the content that I
am most interested in. And like I said,
the fewer followers that you have, the
better news this is for you because the
playing field has been leveled. It
doesn't necessarily matter the quantity
of followers you have. It matters so
much more the quality of content that
you can create. According to Adam
Moseri, the head of Instagram, he says
follower accounts matter less than view
and like counts. Let's pause right there
and think about that. follower counts.
The number of followers you have is less
important than the number of views
and/or likes that your posts are
getting. He continues by saying, "I
understand why people focus so much on
follower counts. They're prominent and
they're easy to find. But if you
actually want to get a sense for how
relevant an account is, look at how many
likes or views per reel they're getting
instead." This is directly from the
horse's mouth. Yes, follower accounts
matter to a certain extent, but the
number of views you're receiving is a
far more accurate indicator or predictor
of your account's relevance, the success
of your business, and the impact that
you're actually making. This is why when
you look at so many large Instagram
accounts, especially large Instagram
accounts that have built their following
over the course of many years, like
myself, like the former co-host of this
podcast, Shelene Johnson, or like pretty
much anyone else with hundreds of
thousands of followers who have built
that following over a decade plus,
you'll see that their engagement rate
and their number of views can often
times be quite low. Just think about it.
I'll take myself as an example, and I'll
be very honest and transparent with
y'all right now. I have almost 800,000
followers on Instagram. But a good
percentage of those people are just
straight up robots, right? They're spam
accounts. They're bots. Not B O U GT. I
did not purchase these accounts, but
they're just spammers and robots who
have followed me over the course of
years. A good percentage of my followers
are no longer active. Or maybe they're
just no longer active on that account.
Maybe they lost their password. Maybe
they have multiple Instagram accounts
and they just don't use that one
anymore. Maybe they just haven't logged
in in a while. Maybe they're on other
platforms or they've deleted the
Instagram app and so they don't use that
profile anymore, but they're still
following me. Not to be morbid or
anything, but there's probably a fair
percentage of my followers who just
aren't alive anymore. Like, they're not
on this planet anymore, but they still
have an Instagram profile and their
Instagram profile still follows me, thus
hurting my engagement rate. It looks
cool because it looks like I have a lot
of followers, and I do have a lot of
followers, and I'm very thankful for my
community and thankful for those who
engage with my posts regularly. But my
point is simply that over the course of
many years, people become uninterested.
They lose access. They're not on
Instagram as much anymore. They're not
interested in growing a business on
Instagram, which is what all of my posts
are about. And so, because they're not
interested in my posts, or because they
literally haven't used Instagram in a
while, they're not seeing my posts. And
so, that's why there's many accounts
like my own that have hundreds of
thousands of followers, but rarely reach
50% of that in terms of their views.
Even the best, most viral post that you
ever make will never reach 100% of your
followers. I need to make sure that we
are all on the same page about that. It
is impossible. Quite literally
impossible. It will never happen that
you reach 100% of your followers unless
you have like 12 followers and they're
your 12 close friends and they're all
still alive and they love you and
they're going to check Instagram on a
daily basis. The reality is not everyone
uses Instagram every day. Some people
who followed you are no longer on this
planet. Some people who followed you are
robots. Some people who followed you are
no longer interested. So, you will never
reach 100% of your followers, but the
less followers that you have, the more
followers you likely will reach, thus
increasing your engagement rate and thus
probably even reaching more people. But
again, all of this to say, the first key
to the Instagram algorithm in 2025 is
that you should stop stressing out so
much over growing your following and
instead focus on what you can do to
improve your views. Now, of course,
that's a ton of what we talk about in
the Insta Club. That's a ton of what we
talk about here at Build Your Tribe,
giving you strategies and tips to
improve your videos, improve the
quality, improve the quantity, the
output, improve your hooks, and the
different strategies to increase views.
And we're going to continue talking
about some of those things throughout
today's episode. But I think that it's
important to redefine success and stop
caring about how many followers you do
or don't have, how many people followed
you this month versus unfollowed you,
and instead focus on your total views
per month or your average views per
reel. The final point that I want to
make about the depp prioritization of
followers comes from stack influence and
they did a survey that found that 86% of
US brand marketers. So these are brands
companies that are sponsoring or
partnering with individuals. Think about
like when you know a phone case company
is sponsoring me to talk about their
phone case. Uh those people 86% of them
will be working with micro influencers
in 2025. And a micro influencer is
generally defined as anyone with 10,000
followers or less. And micro influencers
are now preferred, this blew my mind
when I read this stat, micro
influencers, so people with less than
10,000 followers are now preferred 10
times more than mega celebrity accounts.
Why is that? Because again, the
algorithms have changed. Just because
you have millions of followers doesn't
mean you're going to get the most views
and thus doesn't mean you're going to
get the most conversions from your
audience for that brand. And usually
these smaller accounts, the micro
influencers, have a more engaged, loyal
following that is ready to take action.
And not to mention, it's usually way
less expensive to work with someone who
has 10,000 followers than Kim
Kardashian. So that's the first key to
the Instagram algorithm in 2025. The
second key relates to the first key and
it is the key to getting more views. How
do you actually reach more people? The
best form of engagement. The most direct
way to increase your views on Instagram
is to get more shares. Also known as
sends. When one person takes a post and
shares it with another or sends it to
another person, that is a share. And
that is by far the best form of
engagement on Instagram. The average
according to a few different studies is
that from just one share, you can expect
about 50 extra views on Instagram. And
according to a few studies, that number
is as high as 3 to 400 extra views for
just one share. And think about how this
could snowball. If you got 150 extra
viewers on your reel from getting one
share and just one out of those 150
people also shared it, well, now you got
an extra 150. And this is how posts can
snowball and turn into viral posts.
numerous times on his Instagram stories
and in the podcast interview that I did
with him, Adam Ozeri says that the most
influential factor for getting more
views on Instagram is sends per reach.
To say it in a less complicated way, how
many people are sharing your post that
actually see your post? If your post
gets 100 views and 17 people share it or
send it to a friend, that's a pretty
high rate. That's 17% of viewers sharing
your post. That's a great indication to
the algorithm that people are going to
be interested in this. And the reason
that these platforms have optimized for
shares is that they recognize that
shares bring people together. Remember,
yes, it is still called social media.
And so even though there is a growing
focus on the media side of things, it's
still social first. It's still a
platform where humans connect with other
humans over shared interests, posts, and
content. And so when my wife sends me a
post, which she has likely sent me
numerous while I've been recording this
episode today, that post has a very high
likelihood of being watched by me. Think
about during this episode today how many
posts my wife has likely viewed or liked
or commented on even or even saved. I'm
not likely to see any of those. I'm not
likely to care or be very interested in
any of those. But the specific post that
she is sending to me, she as a human
being has determined regardless of the
algorithm that she thinks I would be
interested. And so it is very likely
that I'm not just going to watch those,
but I'm then going to come onto the
platform, spend more time on the
platform, have a better, more positive
experience and interact with another
user, my wife, because of that share.
Shares bring people back to the platform
and they improve the quality of time
spent on the platform and the quantity
of time spent on the platform. That is
why all these platforms are optimizing
for shares. It's both because of the
audience, the real people who are
sharing posts and the algorithm, the
actual thing that is determining who
sees what posts and whether or not a
post is good or not. In fact, just a few
months ago, I did an experiment about
shares. I understood that shares were
the most important metric on the
platform, but I wanted to test and see
was it really just the algorithm pushing
our posts out to more people because
they were getting shared or were shares
equating to more views because of course
if my wife sends me a post that has now
gone from one viewer to two viewers. And
so the experiment was that I posted a
reel and I told people to share it with
me. Don't send it to anyone else. Just
send me my own post. And so what I was
doing here was essentially controlling
for the variable of the recipient
viewer. There were no recipient viewers.
The only person receiving the post
theoretically if everyone followed the
instructions was me, right? I was the
only person who was going to be viewing
the post. And I promise you, I was not
viewing the post over and over again
millions of times a day. But the results
of that study was that the post went
viral. Despite receiving very average
number of likes and comments and saves
and shares to other people, that post
ended up reaching 2.6 million views. And
that was because it was shared to me. It
was sent to me over 30,000 times. And so
that was a direct and obvious result
that yes, the algorithm is showing your
post to more people if your post is
getting more shares. Now, how do you
actually get more shares? It comes down
to creating shareworthy content. the
kind of content that people are likely
going to be sending from one person to
another. I've done an entire episode
about that, actually just a few weeks
ago, outlining the five different kinds
of shareworthy posts, giving you tips on
how to create them and examples of each
of the five. And I think you'll be
surprised to hear what isn't one of the
five kinds of shareworthy posts. So,
definitely go check that out. I won't
bore you with it here because it would
be an entire extra hour on today's
episode. But creating shareworthy
content and thus getting more shares is
the key to getting more views in 2025
and moving forward. Now, with all that
being said about shares, Instagram
doesn't make it super easy to sort all
of our posts based off how many shares
they are getting. And so it can be kind
of hard to tell what your best and most
shared posts are, especially when you're
using the strategy that I like to call
upycling, which is where you take
something you've posted in the past and
you either post it a second time, giving
it new life, or you slightly recreate it
and modify it and post it a second time.
And so the tool that I like to use to
first of all analyze all of my content
is Metricool. Metricool has advanced
analytics that just give you way more
control and way more of a bird's eye
view as to what is actually working with
your content than Instagram's built-in
analytics. And then what's really cool
is with Metriccool, I can schedule my
posts. So yes, about 98% of the posts
you see on my Instagram account are
scheduled in Metriccool. Metriccool is
what I've been using to schedule my
posts for the last few years. And don't
just take my word for it, but Adam
Moseri, the head of Instagram, says that
scheduling posts will not hurt your
engagement. You will not get less views
or likes or comments or saves or shares
just because you scheduled your post in
advance. So, I highly recommend checking
out Metricool. Down in the link below, I
will put the link to Metriccool, which
by the way, it's free. That's one of the
super awesome things about Metrocool is
it's free to use. Of course, I don't
just use the free version. I use the
paid premium pro version, but you can
get access to that for free as well by
using code Brock at checkout. Again, I
will put the link down in the show notes
below. But when you click on that link
down in the show notes, you can get your
first month of Metricool Pro for free,
thus allowing you to get access to all
of the advanced analytics and stats and
to schedule your posts in advance to
automatically post on not just
Instagram, but every single platform. I
cannot recommend Metricool enough. It is
truly a tool that I need in my tool belt
and it's a tool that I believe that any
business owner or content creator needs
in their tool belt as well. So check
that out in the show notes below. And
this was a little bit of a bonus key to
the Instagram algorithm. So let's get
back into the episode with the third key
to the IG algorithm. Now staying on the
topic of getting more views, let's talk
about how do you get more views on your
Instagram stories? Because there is a
different algorithm for Instagram
stories than there is in the Instagram
feed. The Instagram feed is great
because reals especially are going to
reach so many non-f followers. The
Instagram feed is how you're going to
grow your audience. It's how you're
going to go viral. It's how you're going
to reach new people. That's not
necessarily what's going to happen with
your Instagram stories. Instagram
stories almost never go viral. They
almost never reach non-followers or
reach new people. And because of those
things, they almost never help you grow
your following. But Instagram stories
can be a powerful tool nonetheless for
building trust, for building
relationships, and really connecting on
a deeper level with your audience. Now,
most of the time, I recommend using your
stories as a place for documentation
rather than creation. So, for example,
today on my Instagram stories, I posted
about my meetings this morning. I posted
about the walk that I got to go on right
before lunch with my dogs and Tay, my
wife. I got to post about all the
different things I'm doing. This helps
show people that I'm human. It helps
allow people to connect with me, build
that trust, uh, show them some of my
values, my beliefs, and that all in the
long run will increase the likelihood so
my followers trust me, and they don't
just follow me, but they like me or even
love me, and that they're more likely to
become customers. But with all that
being said, sometimes you're going to
want to maximize your story views. Maybe
you have a launch or a new product
that's going on sale or you have a new
YouTube video that you want to promote
or a new podcast episode or you just
have something that you really want to
make sure the most possible people will
view it on your stories that day. The
highest percentage of your followers
will actually see it that day. And in
order to achieve this, I want you to
post less stories. Less stories equal
more views. To say it another way, the
more stories you post in a 24-hour
period, typically the fewer views you
will get on each of those stories. And
yes, this goes all the way to the
farthest extreme of the spectrum. All of
this to say, posting just one Instagram
story is how you get maximum views. But
if you just post one Instagram story in
a 24-hour period, that's not necessarily
all that I would recommend to maximize
your story views. The strategy that I am
going to recommend to maximize your
story views has a name and an acronym
that you will never forget. It is the
STD strategy. When you post an STD, that
is how you maximize your Instagram story
views. And that acronym stands for this
S, single. Like we already talked about,
you're just going to post one Instagram
story in a 24-hour period. You're going
to let all of the stories that you
posted on the previous day expire. You
could delete or archive them, but it's
usually best to just let them expire.
So, you have no story prior to this.
Then, you're posting your just one
single Instagram story. That's the S.
The T stands for text heavy. The story
that you're posting is going to be heavy
in text. What I mean by that is two to
three paragraphs, multiple sentences of
text. And then the D is the most
important part of the STD. You cannot
have a successful STD without the D. And
the D stands for DM automation. DM
automation is that thing where people
will say, "Reply with the word guide and
I'll send you my free guide. Reply with
blank and I will send you blank."
Essentially, DM automation is a tool
that will replace the link sticker. Now,
Instagram does not punish you for using
a link sticker. There's a common
misconception that the algorithm will
show your post to less people when you
use a link sticker. Or to take this a
step further, when you're saying things
like link in bio on your feed posts, no,
the Instagram algorithm will not punish
you automatically for that. But what
will happen is you will be punished for
what happens when your audience, your
followers hear you say, "Click the link
in my bio." Or you put a link sticker on
your Instagram stories. And here's what
happens when you put that link sticker
on your Instagram stories. People have
two options. They can either click on
that link if they're interested. Cool.
Great. They clicked on the link. Or if
they're uninterested, they can scroll.
That's pretty normal. Of course, there
are always going to be some people who
are uninterested and scroll. That is
unavoidable. But let's focus on the
group who clicked. You have no idea who
they are. Instagram does not tell you
who they are. From their perspective,
they are now opening a link on their
Instagram stories. So, if they close the
link and want to come back to it in the
future, your story better still be up or
else they won't be able to find it. And
if it's a link that requires a purchase,
like a credit card or something, they
now have to input their credit card info
on the Instagram stories. If they have
some sort of issue or challenge or
something comes up or just for whatever
reason they get distracted and they
don't end up purchasing or signing up or
following through, you have no ability
to follow up. And as my good friend
Sally Sparks cousins says, the fortune
is in the followup. But there is no
follow-up when you put that link sticker
on your Instagram stories. Additionally,
there's no engagement. the Instagram
algorithm does not reward that link
click as if it was engagement because
it's not truly engagement with that
story. It's engagement with that link
sticker. So, like I said, instead the D
in the STD is DM automation where you
can ask people to respond with a
specific keyword and then you can have
it set up so that when they say that
keyword, it triggers an instant and
automatic response where they get
whatever it is they were looking for.
This way, it's a win-win. It's a win for
you because you are getting engagement.
People are interacting with and direct
messaging you. They are responding to
your story, which is a positive form of
engagement. In fact, it's the best form
of engagement in the Instagram
algorithm's eyes. And it's a win for
them because now they don't have to
cross their fingers and hope that
everything works. And if they lose that
link, they better hope that your
Instagram story is still up and
available and they can click it again in
that 24-h hour period. Instead, the link
or the guide or the file or the podcast
or whatever it is that they wanted is
being delivered to them right in the
direct messages. A place that they can
come back to over and over again. You as
the brand or business owner are able to
follow up if they don't click or if they
aren't able to purchase successfully.
So, it is truly a win-win. And most of
all, like I said, all of this goes back
to getting the most possible views on
your Instagram story. Now, I have done
another entire episode breaking down
that strategy in more depth. So, if you
want to learn more about the STD
strategy, you can click up here or click
down in the show notes below and we'll
make sure to link that up. But the STD
strategy, like I said, is how you
maximize your story views. The cool
thing about this strategy is that you
can use it two or three times a week.
Basically, whenever you want to boost
your story views for a 24-hour period,
and again, it's a 24-h hour period. So,
the next day, you can go back to normal
posting a bunch of Instagram stories.
your views might go down a little bit,
but during that 24-h hour period, you
got a ton more views. On average, we see
a two to three times increase in story
views. And we have seen some people in
the Insta Club report as much as a 20 to
30% increase in story views just like
that in a 24-hour period. The reason
that this strategy is so effective is
that number one, you're increasing watch
time by creating a textheavy story.
Instagram a few years ago allowed us to
start posting up to 60-second videos on
our stories. And so what did most of us
do? We hopped on our stories and said,
"Hey guys, a lot of you have been asking
me and we rambled on for 60 seconds."
And not only can that be very boring,
very monotonous, very redundant, what
unfortunately happens is your viewers
have no way to interact with that story
besides pausing it or skipping it.
There's no way to fast forward. There's
no way to rewind. If they missed a word
or they weren't clear on something you
said, they can't go back a few seconds.
It's either go back all the way to the
beginning of the story, pause the story,
or skip the story. We are very limited
as consumers of Instagram stories in
terms of the ways that we can actually
interact with or use video stories. And
so text stories are much easier on the
user. People can hold their finger down,
thus pausing the story, and they can
skim. They can read word for word. They
can reread sentences if something didn't
make sense. they can basically consume
at their own pace rather than being
forced to consume at the pace in which
you're speaking. Additionally, I
mentioned this, but I kind of quickly
glossed over it. The DM is the best form
of engagement from an Instagram story.
Yes, there are stickers like the little
polls that you can vote in or the slider
bar. And yes, those do count as
engagement, but by far the best
engagement that you can receive on an
Instagram story is a direct message. And
that's because, again, according to Adam
Oeri, the DMs are Instagram's bread and
butter. They at Instagram believe that
the DMs are what separate them and what
allow them to stay competitive in the
social media world. The DMs are more
heavily used on Instagram than any other
platform. And with on Instagram, the DMs
are the most used area of the platform.
And so, when you're getting people to DM
you from your Instagram story, the
algorithm flipping loves that and it
shows it to more people. And the final
reason that the STD strategy is so
effective is because of the S, the
single. Instagram is not just looking at
how many DMs you receive, but they're
looking at the engagement rate or the
direct message rate. Let's do an example
with easy numbers. If I have one
Instagram story up, and that story
receives 100 views and from those 100
views, I get 23 direct messages, that is
a direct message engagement rate of 23%.
Super high. If I then post a second
story and that second story maybe
doesn't have a DM call to action or it
doesn't have any call to action at all
or maybe it just has one of those
engagement stickers like the poll
sticker. Well then of course I'm going
to be getting less DMs on that second
story but I'm going to be getting
additional views on that second story.
So let's say I only get two DMs on that
second story. That brings us to a total
of 25 direct messages. But let's say the
second story gets 78 views. So the first
one got 100, the second one got 78. So
I've got a total of 178 views. When I
divide the 25 direct messages by the 178
views, we drop from a DM rate of 23% on
that first story to now just 14% in
total because of the second story. So,
my overall stories engagement rate or
stories direct message rate in that
24-hour period has significantly
decreased by posting just one additional
story. That is exactly why the S in the
STD is so crucial. Now, with all of that
being said, my fourth key to the
Instagram algorithm in 2025 is going to
be a little bit contradictory. The
fourth key is to stop chasing gimmicks
and trends and quick fixes. Now, I would
kind of categorize the STD strategy as a
little bit gimmicky. It's a little bit
of a hack. It's definitely something
that Instagram could change their
algorithms. Instagram could deprioritize
the value of one story or they could
devalue uh the weight of a direct
message and that could definitely change
this strategy. I will say the STD
strategy has been effective for the last
3 years. So, it's not a flash in the
pan. It's not something that's just
going to work for a month, but it's not
necessarily something that I would bet
is going to work 10 years from now.
There are, however, definitely some
strategies that I can tell you might
work today. They might work this week or
this month, but they're not going to
work a month from now. They're not going
to work in 2026, and they definitely
ain't working 5 to 10 years from now.
And these are the gimmicks and the hacks
and the trends that a lot of social
media coaches love to shout about.
They're the things that oftentimes go
viral because it feels like a way to get
rich quick. But what do we call things
that are get-richqu? We call them
get-richqu schemes. They are schemes.
They are scammy. They are hacks. They
are not authentic. They might work. They
might be effective for a day or two, but
they're not authentic and they're not
going to lead to long-term success or
gains. Here's three gimmicks that I'm
going to tell you to avoid. Number one,
hashtags and trending audios. Now,
hashtags and trending audios can work,
and honestly, they aren't necessarily
gimmicks. They're just far less
effective now than they were 10 years
ago. We don't need to get into the
details of search engine optimization
and how Instagram continues to improve
its AI that can detect what your posts
are about, and so hashtags are less
important. Just listen to my
conversation with Adam Oarian, and
you'll hear how he says that hashtags do
not help you increase your reach.
Hashtags are no longer a primary way to
increase your reach on Instagram. They
don't significantly increase your reach
on Instagram. Gotcha. Contrary to
popular belief, it's just not an
important thing for for reach. People
always get so upset when I say this, but
the reality is if you're having great
success with your hashtags, if trending
audios are making a huge difference for
you, great. Give me the middle finger,
plug your ears, and keep doing it. But
for most people, I believe that too much
stress or emphasis or too much of a
focus is put on finding the perfect list
of hashtags or getting the greatest
trending audio before it blows up. When
in reality, those things are only going
to make a small difference. Those things
can be like icing on a cake. If the cake
itself, if the filling and the actual
cake batter, if the actual mixture is
not set up correctly, the icing can only
do so much to save it. It might make it
look pretty on the outside, but it's not
really going to make a significant
difference most of the time. There are
exceptions to that, but generally
speaking, stop worrying about hashtags
and trending audios. Number two, one of
my personal pet peeves and something
that is growing in dispopity or people
are just growing to dislike more than
ever before are what I call clickbait
reels. Clickbait is a term that
originated from YouTube. Clickbait on
YouTube is, and hopefully there's none
over in the sidebar right now as you're
watching this, but clickbait is where
the thumbnail is like super exaggerated.
There's like a shark eating a woman and
then the the title of the YouTube video
is like my wife's shark attack and then
you watch the video and it's like not
actually about a shark attack. It's
about like how your kid came down stairs
and he had built like a fake dorsal fin
and he like pretended to like be jaws
and attack your wife and so it's like oh
it was a bait and switch. You baited me
into clicking just to get the view. It
leaves people with a really bad taste in
their mouth. And while it can be
effective, a lot of marketing strategies
can be effective, but they're unethical.
They're maybe outdated or they're just
tacky and kind of sleazy. That's
clickbait on YouTube. And clickbait
reels on Instagram are, let me describe
them for you. You've likely seen some.
It's okay if you've made one in the last
24 hours or you've made one recently.
When we know better, we do better. But
clickbait reels on Instagram are the
super short reels. They're like 3 or 4
seconds long. They're usually some
random slapped on trending audio in the
background. There's some random B-roll,
maybe of you, maybe of some AI clone,
maybe of some random beach at sunset.
And there's a super sensationalized
hook. super sensationalized text on the
screen similar to like the YouTube
clickbait titles. It's something that's
like crazy outlandish and then after two
or three seconds some three words of
text pop up on the screen and it says
say it with me. It says read the caption
or details below. It says something like
that. Basically, it's trying to force
you and trick you into reading the
caption. There is no point of the reel.
The whole point of the reel is to just
be a billboard that says, "Go read the
caption." And then people are writing
unnecessarily long 17 paragraph captions
with no real value. They're forcing
themselves to be super long- winded and
tell all these stories and it's just
trying to gify Instagram. It's trying to
trick us into spending more time with
your posts. I have heard from so many of
my followers that they will not engage,
intentionally not engage when they see
people posting like that. or some people
are now reporting that they unfollow
creators who are making that kind of
content. Again, that kind of content
oftentimes will be rewarded by the
algorithm. Oftentimes, the algorithm
will say, "Hey, people are spending more
time with this post, so we'll show it to
more people." So, it can work. But what
I'm here to report to you is that a
growing majority of people are saying
that they dislike this style of content.
It's like clickbait. And so I'm
encouraging you to not create this kind
of content and instead put the value in
the video. Create a caption that is as
long as it needs to be, but not
unnecessarily long. And you're not just
trying to trick people into reading the
caption. And then it's 2025 and I can't
believe I have to say this. The third
gimmick that has risen in popularity.
I've been seeing it on threads a lot,
but it's like I'm going to throw up if I
see this cuz now I'm starting to see it
on reals, too, is follow trains or
follow forollow. People are making these
posts where it's like, "Comment what you
do down below and then follow 17 other
people and then everyone's gonna follow
you and I guarantee you'll wake up
tomorrow with 500 followers." Are you
kidding me? I can't imagine a less
organic way to grow. I can't imagine
besides like buying followers, like
literally buying robot spam followers. I
can't imagine a way to grow your
following in a less organic way, in a
way that's going to give you more
followers who are disengaged and who
won't ever become customers and who are
basically worthless. No offense to those
people. Oh god, no. Please do not do
follow for follow or follow unfollow or
these follow trains. I mean, can we just
leave that in 2014? All right, next up
on the list, number five out of seven.
And this one comes directly from my
conversation, not with the head of
Instagram, but with the head of
Instagram for business, Thomas Fenetto.
He's the guy who runs the official Meta
for Business, Instagram for business
accounts. And he works with really
highle brands. Like you think of a high
level brand, they've worked with them at
Meta. And he also of course directs
Instagram for business. So he works with
small people, brands, entrepreneurs like
us on a daily basis. And what he said is
that a few years ago it was important
for brands and businesses to consider
entertainment. Like yeah, they should
provide value, they should teach, they
should serve, but they should also be
keeping in mind the the entertainment
factor. But he says that now brands need
to think of themselves as entertainers
first and foremost. The number one most
important thing that you should be
considering when you're creating content
is the entertainment value that it
provides. If you don't have
entertainment baked into your strategy,
I think you're not starting from a very
good place. If you'd asked me 3 years
ago, I'd be like, "Yeah, like brands
really need to start thinking of
themselves as entertainers." And now
it's impossible to ignore. The brands
that aren't thinking like, "How are we
entertaining people?" Entertaining can
mean a lot of things to a lot of people.
Glad you said that. I think comedy
relatability is the easiest one to start
with if that works for your brand. But
you can also entertain people through
storytelling. One helpful way that I
like to think about this when I'm
creating my content is looking at each
individual piece, each sentence, each
word, each frame, each scene, all of it.
And ask myself, is it necessary? Is it
going to move the plot forward or move
the reel forward and keep people
engaged? or is it redundant, repetitive,
unnecessary, slightly boring? Is there a
moment where someone could have a lapse
in attention when they are watching the
reel? And recognizing this in your own
content is definitely a skill that is
learned over time. When you first start
creating content, it's going to be tough
for you to be that critical of your own
content and really pick it apart to
determine if it's that engaging or not.
So, something that you can do when
you're first getting started is practice
on other people's content. Check out
other people's posts. Watch the posts
that just are naturally engaging to you
or maybe the posts that are boring you.
And just ask yourself why. What was it
in this particular video that kept you
watching? What was it in this reel that
made you watch to the end? Or what was
it that made you scroll away after the
first few seconds? Paying attention to
those things will improve your
entertainment factor and thus the number
of views and the success that you're
having on Instagram. Now, speaking of
those first few seconds, those are
everything for your reels. If you want
more views, if you want more people to
see your content, if you want to have
more success, make more sales, get more
customers, grow your business or brand
on Instagram and really on any social
media moving forward, the hook is
everything. According to most studies,
the average reel is watched for around 3
seconds. Translation, most reels are not
getting viewed after the hook. And that
includes all of the reels that were
watching for like a minute or two. So in
reality, the majority of reels are
probably being watched for less than
three seconds. The majority of reels are
not even getting their entire hook
consumed before the consumer is
scrolling on to the next one. So your
hook is everything. Your hook is what I
would recommend spending the most time,
energy, and effort focused on. Something
that I like to do is teach a man to
fish, but also give him a fish. That
way, it's kind of a win-win. Whether
you're someone who wants to learn to
fish to feed yourself or you're just
someone who wants to just straight up
eat and you're like, "Brock, just give
me the ideas." If you want 25 viral hook
ideas, we did a study of about 3,000
viral reels and Tik Toks. And then we
pulled out the hook, whether it was a
spoken hook that needed to be
transcribed or just the text on the
screen. We analyzed those and put them
into a list of the top 25 most viral
hooks. That is free. You can download
that in the show notes below. But if
you're someone who doesn't just want to
eat, you don't just want to be handed a
fish, here is how you can fish, so to
speak, and create better hooks. Number
one, the length of your hook. If you are
considering the text on screen or the uh
words that you're saying at the
beginning of your video, keep it 5 to
eight words long. 5 to 8 kind of tends
to be that sweet spot where it's long
enough to get your point across or to
deliver a message that is
understandable, but it's not so long
that it's redundant and long-winded and
confusing. So 5 to eight words is a good
general length to stick to. Also the
number five is the grade in which to max
out at. And what I mean by that
confusing sentence is don't make the
words that you're using in your hook
smarter than a fifth grader. Fifth grade
reading level or simpler or lower for
your hooks. Dumb it down. Use simple
words. Use easy to understand language.
Don't use any insider jargon or lingo or
special acronyms. Make sure that you
make your hooks simple so that more
people can understand them. And that is
not just because media literacy rates
are declining, but mainly because most
people are scrolling distracted. I'm
going to be honest with you. Even while
I'm talking to you right now and
recording this podcast, I've got my
phone right here, which yes, has my
notes, but I'm also getting texts and
emails and like I'm a little bit
distracted as I'm talking at some points
in today's episode. And you likely are
too. While you are watching or
listening, I would be willing to bet
that you have done at least one other
thing during the last 25 minutes of this
episode. And so, keep it simple. Dumb it
down. 5 to eight words, fifth grade
reading level or lower. And whenever
possible, use a negative word. One of my
favorite examples of this is if you go
on ESPN, you'll see this all the time.
If a team won a game last night, instead
of the headline being the team won the
game, the headline will be the team
snapped a three-game losing streak.
Either way, you are communicating the
idea that they won last night. But to
say they won the game is positive and
thus unfortunately less engaging than
saying they snapped, negative word, the
three-game losing streak, negative
words. Using negative words like don't,
stop, avoid, cancel, crash, those sorts
of things can be highly engaging in your
content, but word of the wise, don't
overuse it. If every single one of your
hooks is negative, it will stop holding
its value. It will stop being as
attention-grabbing and you'll be, you
know, the nightly news where it's just
negative story after negative story, and
eventually you got to turn it off. And
that brings us to the seventh and last
but not least key to the Instagram
algorithm in 2025. And this is something
that is definitely working right now and
is a little bit gimmicky. It's a little
bit of a hack, but it's a hack that's
been working for the last six months.
And so I can't not tell you about it.
And it's trial reels. Trial reels is a
kind of post that was created and
released by Instagram in December 2024
that will only reach nonfollowers. To
say it another way, it's a kind of reel
that when you post it, your followers
will not see it. Trial reels are a
gamecher. They are a growth hack. Just a
week or two ago, I posted an episode of
this podcast all about trial reels
detailing what they are, how to get
access to them, and my beginner,
intermediate, and advanced strategies.
And from that episode, I got this
message from Nicole Nesby where she
said, "I followed what you said in
YouTube, and these were my stats. I did
a 24-hour trial reels blitz, which I
love that name for it. That's a great
nickname, and I'm definitely stealing
that." She goes, "I ended up being able
to post more than 25. I posted about 26
trial reels in 24 hours. In total, I got
72,441
views. And remember, that's 72,000 views
from new potential followers. From that,
I got 56 new followers in one day, and I
am gobsmacked, honestly. Which, wow,
Nicole, you've got some great words.
Gobsmacked. She goes, "This is so easy.
Using the duplicate a real feature in my
drafts makes it so simple." Pro tip, by
the way, if you have a reel saved in
your draft and you tap three dots, you
can duplicate the reel, thus making it
easier for you to post the same reel
multiple times or make slight edits and
tweaks to that reel before posting it
multiple times. And she goes, "It's so
simple to remix all of my best reels and
get dozens of drafts ready to go in a
blink." Shout out to Unicole and shout
out to everyone else who has messaged me
about the success that they've been
having implementing the trial reel
strategies that I outlined last week.
But since that episode has been posted,
Instagram themselves have posted their
own statistics in regards to trial
reels. And the statistic is so awesome.
According to Instagram, 80% of people
who are using trial reels are getting
increased reach to nonfollowers each
month. So, I can confidently say that
trial reels are one of the best features
Instagram has ever given us. I hope
they're never taken away, but to be
realistic, they will probably be taken
away or depp prioritized or the
algorithm will change or something will
happen within the next year or so. But
right now, trial reels are a gamecher.
Definitely go watch that episode that I
put out last week about trial reels and
how they can help you reach more people
without having to do a bunch of extra
work. Because ultimately, that's what
this is all about. My whole goal is
helping you get results in the least
amount of time possible by giving you
the strategies and techniques that are
proven to be most effective and most
efficient on Instagram. If that's what
you're looking for and you haven't
already, definitely hit subscribe. I
want to say thank you to everyone who
has recently subscribed. We are now over
50,000 subscribers on the podcast, which
is just so flipping awesome. I feel like
a YouTuber now. I can't wait to
hopefully hit 100K one day and get one
of those silver play buttons and maybe a
million subscribers one day. that would
be an absolute dream come true. And so,
I just want to say thank you so much for
subscribing. I will be honest and say
that a lot of people who are listening
and watching each week are not
subscribed. But whether you've been
subscribed since day one and you've
watched every episode or this is the
first ever Build Your Tribe episode that
you've watched from us, thank you so
much for being here. And I'll sign off
the way I always do by saying as always,
happy networking.